[truck horn blares]
- Adult mark (vo):
Growing up,
The most popular room
was also the smallest
But it had the best seat
in the house.
- Pop:
Occupied!
- Mike sr.:
- Pop: Sweet jesus,
I've seen it all before!
- The only way to avoid
getting in each other's way
Was to gather
in the flickering glow
Of the modern fireplace
and ignore each other...
Together as a family.
[laughter]
When kids my age
were watching alf,
I was memorizing
bob hope routines.
- I didn't know why the baseball
was getting bigger and bigger
And bigger;
then it hit me.
[laughter]
[upbeat jazz music]
Thank you very much.
- The schoolyard was what
we comedians might call
A "tough room".
- Hey, fellas.
Man is it cold today,
or what?
You know, it's so cold
the politicians
Have their hands
in their own pockets!
[mark chuckles]
Say, fellas,
Did you catch that
bob hope birthday tribute
Last night on tv?
You know you're
getting old
When the candles
cost more than the cake,
Am I right?
- This stuff killed at home,
but on the schoolyard
It could very well end up
getting me killed.
- You losers want to hear
something really funny?
- Gary: Eddie murphy!
Whoa, I hear this is filthy!
- Where'd you get that?
- It's my dad's.
Mom's gone on vacation
with her dumb-ass new boyfriend
So I have to stay
at his house.
[boys laughing]
- What's so funny?
- I had never heard
language like that before.
Not even that time
pop fell asleep
With a lit smoke
in his mouth.
- Your father lets you
listen to language like that?
- He doesn't care.
He's never home.
- Gary: Give it back.
[boys laughing]
- Clearly, it was time
to freshen up my act.
- Exciting news,
children.
The school will be holding
a public speaking contest
And though the bible
tells us to judge not,
Sister rose and I
will be doing just that.
It will be happening
one week from today
In the gymnatorium
on the main stage.
- Finally!
A stage.
Comedy in front of nuns?
Now, that
was my crowd.
- Thank you.
Thank you.
How are ya, folks?
Sisters, fathers,
brothers.
I guess you could say
the whole family is here!
Even the bishop made it.
And he can only move
diagonally.
You're a
great crowd.
I really mean that!
[cheering; clapping]
- Mark! Mark! Mark!
- Mark?
As I was saying, if any of you
would like to participate,
Please see sister rose
to register after school
In the music room.
- After school?
I had put my career
on hold long enough.
- Sister, may I
be excused?
[breathing heavily]
I left my inhaler
in my coat.
- You can
borrow mine.
- (whispered)
shut up.
- Be quick about it.
- He's not quick
about anything.
- A vow of celibacy
meant the only passion
In sister rose's life
was music.
- Sister rose.
Mark critch.
Such a fan of your work.
A principal who also volunteers
for music and public speaking?
[exhales]
Where do you
find the time?
- Speaking of...
- Hmm?
- I would like to register
for the contest!
- You're ritchie perez's
little friend.
Yes, you'll do nicely.
- I guess I do have
a way with words.
- Oh, no,
not that.
As you know, mr. Critch,
I conduct the school orchestra.
I need a
second cellist.
And now you show up
out of the blue.
Yes, this is
divine intervention.
Your friend,
ritchie, plays
And now you will play
the cello as well.
- Play cello?
In my school?
This was
a death sentence.
- Sister,
I'm flattered,
Obviously.
I truly am
But I'm really trying to focus
on my comedy right now.
So, about the contest--
- Oh, I'm not asking,
mr. Critch.
- Desperate
for warm bodies,
The nuns had turned
to conscription.
I'd been drafted.
- Rehearsals are tuesdays
and thursdays at lunch.
Do not be late.
- Uhh...
I'm a big fan of lunch
in general.
It's what I call
'me time'.
Maybe--
- If you do not
play the cello,
There will be no
speaking contest for you.
- Checkmate.
- And mark?
Are you
Any relation
to a mr. Patrick critch?
- He's my grandfather.
- Do say hello for me.
- I couldn't sleep.
My dream had become
a nightmare.
[cheering;
applause]
- Hey!
Let me hear
some noise!
[whoops]
Aren't nuns stupid?
Nun said she saw me runnin'
in the hall the other day.
Know what
I told her?
I told her
it wasn't me!
Look at me.
Do I look
like I run?
I'm so lazy,
I sweat gravy!
[booing]
[dark music]
- Now, what's wrong
with you?
You got a face on ya
like a boiled boot.
- Our nun principal
is making me play the cello.
And she said to say
hello to you.
Sister rose?
- Sister rose.
Oh, that's a long time
since I've heard that name.
Here.
- I want to
be a comedian.
I don't want to be
some dumb cellist.
- Mm-hm, here.
Everyone will
laugh at me!
- I'll get you out of it.
I'll write you a note.
- That's awesome!
- You know, she's not as bad
as she looks.
- Thanks, pop.
- This should do it.
Here you are.
Now...
Don't open it!
It's strongly worded.
- What are you
up to?
- I can't show an interest
in my grandson's well-being
Without there being
some ulterior motive?
- Not usually, no.
[cello notes]
- You're not even trying.
- I hate this!
It's your fault
that I'm here.
- I'm not apologizing
for being your friend.
Besides, I'm glad
you're here.
My parents make me play
and I'm not very good.
But with you
next to me,
I'm going to look
way better.
- Nice.
- Huh, first thing
is how you hold the bow:
Make sure your thumb
and number two finger
Are across
from each other.
- You know what finger
I'm about to use?
- Mark!
- It was nice
playing with you.
Good luck with it.
I'm so sorry
to do this
But I have to quit.
I'm afraid my schedule
simply does not allow.
I have a note.
[pop clears
his throat]
- Pop (vo):
Dear sister rose,
Or "rosie"
As I knew you then
when life was new
And love
was everything.
Do you remember
that first kiss
Beneath the church
bell tower?
The orange I gave you
was as stolen as the kiss
But it was all I had
to offer you, rosie.
My forbidden fruit!
I can still taste
The sweet citrus
from your lips.
I swore I would never
let another orange
Touch them again.
I even got scurvy.
The doctor put me
on vitamin c pills
But they gave me
acid reflux.
Anyway, never mind
about that.
Your eternal flame
Will forever burn
in my broken heart.
- Rose!
What do you think
you're doing?
Oh!
You come with me.
- Patrick!
- Rose!
Rose!!
- May god forgive me.
P.S. Please excuse mark
from cello.
The boy is soft.
All the best,
patrick.
- I do not accept
your note.
You can't enter
The speaking contest
Until you have mastered
at least one song on the cello.
And you may give
your grandfather
This note
from me.
Do not read it.
It's a sin to covet
the written words of others,
And it is punishable
by strapping.
- I don't remember that
in the bible.
Must be
post-vatican 2.
[exciting
string music]
- What's in the box,
tool?
Not like you
to lift something heavy.
- I'm sorry.
If I told you
I'd have to explain
what a cello is
And then I'd have to explain
what an orchestra is,
And I have
a bus to catch.
[grunts]
- Aw, little wuss
Probably got
his mommy in there.
- Forcing my mother
inside a cello case
And then dragging it
around school all day
Wouldn't make me
a wuss,
It'd make me
a psychopath.
- I know you are
but what am I?
- What?
[laughter]
Oh, gee.
[laughter;
grunting]
[musical thud]
- Sounds like he got
a cat in there.
- See?
It's a cello.
- It's a
big guitar!
- No, idiot,
it's a big fiddle.
- Ow!
Give it back!
- Hey, look at me;
I'm eddie van halen!
[plonking strings]
- Seriously, how is there never
a nun around when you need one?
- Okay, that's enough,
nimrods.
- He's gonna miss his bus.
- Oh, you hear that?
Her boyfriend's
gonna miss his bus.
- Ooh!
- Get in the case.
- Get off me.
Stop, let go!
- Come on, get her in,
get her in.
[laughter]
- It was either me or the cello
and I hated the cello
Almost as much
as I hated the foxes.
So, I picked me.
[door opens]
[shuffling
footsteps]
- Did she read
my note?
- Yep, she gave me this.
- Hm.
[emotional music]
- Sister rose (vo):
My dearest patrick,
Oh, how your words
made me tremble.
I felt as though
I was a young girl again.
[wolf whistle]
Patrick...
My heart!
[dramatic music]
- You stay away!
- Rose, don't go!
- Patrick!
- Why did you not
fight for me that day?
- Stay away!
- She who would gladly
spend an eternity in hell
For just
one night
In your
fiery embrace.
P.S.
Mark may not be excused
from playing cello.
While the boy is soft,
I am a cellist short.
- I'm going to write
you another note.
[deep sigh]
- Who loses a cello?
- I didn't lose it.
It was
beaten from me.
[indistinct
conversations]
What the hell, fox?
I called you three times
last night - no answer.
- I'm staying
at my dad's, dummy.
- Where's my cello?
- My brother tried to sell it
but nobody wants a stupid cello
So he dumped it
in my dad's backyard.
- That's not good, too much
humidity. Varnish wo--
- Stay out of this.
You have to take me there
at lunch.
- No!
Dad said I'm not allowed
to have kids over.
- Well, too bad.
Maybe his kids
shouldn't steal cellos then!
- You don't understand.
- No, you don't
understand.
That nun
is going to kill me.
[school bell]
- We're gonna
be late.
- I thought
we were friends
But you're no better
than your brothers.
You're all
the same.
- Fine.
Lunchtime.
But you do as I say
or so help me...
♪♪
- I asked ritchie
to cover for me.
Perhaps I asked
too much.
- He's coming.
He just had to go to
the washroom first.
- Mm.
[exhales]
- I think
he had to poop.
He's been pooping
a lot lately.
- Eh, um, we shall
begin without him.
- Fox was embarrassed
by her father's house
But I envied her.
I longed for neighbours
to play with
And she literally had them
on the other side of her walls.
- I'm not supposed
to just show up.
- That doesn't make any sense.
It's your house, too.
- I don't stay here; it's just
'cuz mom is out of town
With her
dumb boyfriend.
You wouldn't
understand.
- Hm.
He should be here
by now.
- It's definitely
a poop.
- Stop talking
about poop!
I'm going to
check on him.
- I have to poop
whenever I eat ice cream.
- What?
- Every ice cream day,
I bring 50 cents
for a fudge stick.
But whenever
I eat it,
My stomach hurts.
- Why don't you just
stop eating them?
- They taste
too good.
One time
I didn't make it.
Had to hide my pants
in a snowbank.
- Eh, ju-ju-just
play it again.
[wrestling show
playing on tv]
- Announcer:
Listen to the roar
Of this capacity crowd
Here at
memorial stadium
For the
superstars of wrestling.
[door closing]
- The air was heavy
with an unfamiliar smell
That I now know
as beer.
- Announcer:
Whipper billy watson
Faces off against
(indistinct)
[dramatic
music swell]
[snoring]
[dog barking
in distance]
- Take it and go!
[upsetting music]
[emotional
cello music]
[grunts and groans]
Be quiet.
- Announcer: He's coming up
against the ropes here now and--
- Ohh!!
- [door slams shut]
[beer bottle skitters
across floor]
- Whipper is really
going to work!
Oh, I mean, how much more
can a man withstand?
[dramatic music crescendo]
- This is what you do
when I'm asleep, is it?
- I had never been
more terrified in my life
And I was taught
by nuns.
- Where'd you
steal that?
- It's his.
He left it here.
He's just a friend
from school, dad.
- This what you do at lunch
times, you bring boys home?
You're just like
your mother, you are.
- Just go.
Go!
- So, who told you
you could come here?
You tell your mother
and her friggin' boyfriend
That I ain't running no frigging
daycare centre, ya hear me?
- Should I play it
again or...
[heavy breathing]
- Sorry I'm late.
I...
[sighs]
[latch unclasping]
[disheartening music]
[romantic music]
- Sweet merciful christ.
- Pop gave me this
for you.
- Pop (vo):
My dearest rosie.
As I watched her
pull you away,
I could only
think of two things.
One: That you had
some kind of arse on ya.
[chuckles]
And two: That a fool like me
could never offer you
Anything but grief.
What a fool I was
all those years ago.
I know that you believe
in a heaven
That I shall never see
But, if god
pities liars
And we do
meet again,
Let us love each other
The way we should have done
from the start.
P.S.
Let the boy
off the hook
And I'll come over there
and grab onto you
Like you were
the last life jacket
On the bloody titanic.
[sister mary gulps]
[music ends abruptly]
- You don't have to
play the cello anymore.
Get out.
♪♪
- Look, I didn't see anything
and I was never in your house,
Okay?
But he shouldn't
grab you like that.
- I knew it.
I can't trust you.
This is all your fault.
You're dead
if you say anything.
Do you hear me?
Dead!
- Tina (through speakers):
And, in conclusion,
That is why I plan
to keep my virginity
Until marriage
and save it for jesus!
Thank you!
[polite applause]
- Our next speaker
is mark critch.
His topic is...
Jokes.
Mark?
- Hello?
[feedback]
I mean,
"how are ya?"
Good news!
The principal said
we are only going to have
A half day of school
this morning.
[enthusiastic cheering
and applause]
And the bad news is
We're going to have the
other half in the afternoon.
[groans
then silence]
Uh...
I told my mother I got
a hundred the other day.
I got a 60 in spelling
and a 40 in math.
- The old jokes I'd learned
were bombing.
I put fox through all of that
for nothing.
"screw it,"
I figured.
If I was going to bomb,
At least I'd bomb
with original material.
- The other day,
I asked sister rose
If she would give me the strap
for something I didn't do.
She said,
"no, of course not!"
So I said, "good,"
Because I didn't do
my homework."
[laughter;
applause]
I asked sister margaret
if pets go to heaven.
She wouldn't answer.
I then asked her
if god created everything
Then who made god?
She told me to stop
asking questions.
She's not so much
of a catholic nun
And more of a
none-of-your-business.
[laughter;
applause]
- As sister margaret dragged me
off the stage by the ear,
I realized I didn't need to be
bob hope or eddie murphy.
I just needed
to be myself.
[cheerful music]
[applause continues]
- Ho.
[giggling]
Hm.
- Hm.
Hm-hm-hm.
- Gross!
[gasp]
- Sister rose:
What was I thinking?
[music ends
dramatically]
- Hey!
- Surprisingly,
Once I no longer
had to play the cello,
I actually kind of
wanted to play the cello.
[last note drags
across string]
- Pop:
Jesus.
- I came to realize
that my family
Would applaud pretty much
everything I did,
No matter how lame.
This was a bit
of a letdown.
But it was also
a comfort.
- Here, boy.
Good night.
- That was really good,
my ducky.
Just play it again.
- Some people
want the truth
But there'd be
lots of time for that.
I was happy to have a family
that loved me enough
To lie to me.
♪♪